---
key: blog
title: Why I Ran 4 Miles Every 4 Hours for 48 Hours
showcaseImage: ./gogrun.jpeg
excerpt: "Who would want to do this to themselves? David Goggins. He's a former Navy SEAL, world record holder for the most pull-ups in 24 hours (4,030), and an ultramarathoner. He's kind of a badass."
---

> Note: This post was modified in 2023 for formatting and brevity

Who would want to do this to themselves? David Goggins. He's a former Navy SEAL, world record holder for the most pull-ups in 24 hours (4,030), and an ultramarathoner. He's kind of a badass.

Goggins created the “4 x 4 x 48” challenge, where participants run 4 miles, rest for 4 hours, and repeat for 48 hours. That's almost two MARATHONS in two days. It's about pushing through mental barriers and adapting if needed: walk, ride a bicycle, or do calisthenics.

I decided to take on this challenge for three reasons:

1. **Combat procrastination**
   How can waking up at irregular hours and running help with procrastination? The ability to overcome mental barriers and force myself to do something that I would rather put off will be strengthened by completing this challenge. This will help me with overcoming the mental hurdles that I experience with procrastination.

2. **Test the 40% rule**
   David Goggins has a rule called the “40% rule” which states that when the mind and body tire out, we are only at 40% of our true potential. I wanted to put this rule to the test.

3. **To add a story to my cookie jar**
   For me, a central aspect of life is about creating great memories and stories with the people around me. I attempt to continuously add to my “cookie jar” as life goes on by seeking out new experiences.

## The Challenge

On January 28, we somehow managed to gather together seven tough, driven friends to take on this behemoth of a challenge. I was extremely surprised by the willingness of people that I had just met to do this challenge with me. I have made some of my closest friends through attempting this challenge with people I had met a few days before. I am grateful for the bonds that going through a physical and mental struggle together formed with my new friends.

The main struggles throughout the challenge were sleep deprivation and physical deterioration. As someone who can barely function on 6 hours of sleep, I had to persevere on a maximum of 3–4 hours for each day. I ran the first 24 miles and had ample time to get a good four hours of sleep in between sets on the first day. However, on my second midnight run, my ankle started giving out while “running” at around a 13-minute mile pace. By taking Goggins’ advice, I was able to do the next two sets of 4 miles walking.

Walking has a couple of benefits and disadvantages during this challenge. By walking, I was able to keep going in the challenge without risking further injury. On the other hand, I would only have around 2 hours of rest in between sets leaving a tough decision between showering or getting one good sleep cycle in before my next run.

During my 30th mile, I had great doubts about my ability to finish the challenge. To spare the details, I will just say that I was very close to being unable to control my bowels. After finishing my 32nd mile, I decided to transition to riding a bike. Looking back, this decision to continue may have been poor for my physical health, but I still do not regret it. The experience of being able to push my mental barriers to their limit was priceless.

I biked until the last 4 miles, where I ran on the track with the remaining 2/6 friends that persevered until the end of the challenge. On mile 46, a golf ball-sized blister forming on the underside of my foot popped, forcing me to limp the last two miles. Despite the excruciating pain and exhaustion I was feeling at the finish line, I was in a state of absolute bliss.

## Reflections

Reflecting on the experience, I am very happy that I was able to be surrounded by such inspiring individuals in such a humbling challenge.

I have a newfound greater appreciation of the mind’s ability to consciously persevere through obstacles to achieving a goal. Recently, I have noticed myself thinking back to the challenge when I am procrastinating on an assignment or pressing the snooze button and instead using my willpower to overcome hurdles and wake up early or start an essay a couple days in advance.

I definitely appreciate the beauty of sleeping more, and how not getting enough sleep can take a real toll on the mind and body. I do not think I have ever been as tired as I was when I had to wake up for the second 4 AM run on 1 hour of sleep.

If you are thinking of doing the challenge, please make sure to take the proper safety precautions, prepare, and never run/walk/bike alone if you are not feeling well. Drink lots of fluids, eat foods high in carbohydrates, and wear sunscreen!

When done safely, the 4x4x48 challenge can have a profound impact on anyone’s life and mind, and I recommend it to anyone who is looking to improve their mental self-talk or add a story to the “cookie jar”.
